---
title: Ideas
date: 2021-09-21T20:04:00Z
tags:
- 'work'
---

We need to figure out a list of things that a T1E, APS, T2S, or MH agent should
know. 

Then we need to figure out the best way to order that information so that the
skills building is progressive in terms of skills that build on other skills
and in terms of difficulty.

For anyone moving into APS and T2S/MH Linux CLI skills and _best-practices_
should be a major part of this. We're seeing significant gaps in the skills of
agents specifically in APS it seems, when it comes to Linux CLI skills and
knowledge.

There needs to be documentation regarding how internal tools such as scripts and
oneliners should be submitted for approval and policies around how those things
are processed. Right now to anyone in T1 - APS, Systems/T3 seems a bit like a
black-hole. 

Also, Systems level agents, like myself (MH) are being told to submit scripts
and tools for approval through Operation Improve, but in other channels have
been told to submit them through Jira directly to T3. What's the official
process? Is this documented anywhere?

Since it's discouraged to disseminate files of oneliners that have been
developed, this also curtails potential learning and dis-enables folks who would
be able to effectively and safely use those oneliners. Oneliners may be
developed multiple time by multiple different agents to solve common problems we
all face, and with varying degrees of quality. 

Larger files that have been passed around and maintained are like a code-base
that has been developed by multiple individuals over time. While not perfect, is
any open-source code-base perfectly safe?

Rather than completely curtailing this, why not train people in the skills they
need to have better judgement around what should and shouldn't be run where. If
we try to block this completely people will just work around it, which in some
cases may in-fact be worse for us. We have more control over it if we train
people up right not if we just try to prevent the dissemination of useful tools. 
If there are too many barriers to getting things approved people won't bother.

Scripts and oneliners that have been in common use which have been deprecated by
T3 for one reason or another should be broadcast through official channels
according to an official policy. Otherwise it can and is missed if not done this
way. Official channels is probably an Ack since that's the only real system we
have for broadcasting any official policy changes and tracking whether or not it
was Ack'd. 


