---
title: Apache Section
date: 2021-10-12T09:26:00Z
tags:
---

* [Source](https://360.articulate.com/review/content/0eceb3f9-896d-4fc8-b052-814c4e7dbe3d/review)

## Virtual Host Configuration

Why are we teaching the `/usr/local/cpanel/scripts/fix-web-vhost-configuration`
script? I'm sure it's useful if there's ever an issue with this, but not once in
my career here have I ever had to run this script. Maybe this was a more common
issue in the past, but it just doesn't seem to come up very often these days. 

I think a better introduction to Apache and vhosts would be to install a LAMP
from scratch and perform a basic vhosts setup that serves a simple page. On a
non-cPanel server of course.

The `/usr/local/cpanel/scripts/rebuildhttpdconf` is super useful and I use it
all the time, but I feel like this is really more in the scope of T1E or APS
training, and not necessarily a _pipeline_. A _pipeline program_ should focus on
sysadmin fundamentals that are more or less operating system agnostic; i.e.
don't rely on cPanel scripts, API, etc. The scripts are helpful, but it's
important to understand what purpose they serve, and what they're doing
_under-the-hood_ first.

## Easy Apache 4

Again, I feel like a section on EA4 is more appropriate in T1E or APS training
not necessarily the pipeline. 

Since we should focus on skills that are more or less agnostic to the OS, a unit
on the `yum` package manager might be more appropriate in the pipeline. 

> In this section, we are going to look more in-depth at how to recompile Apache

We're not actually recompiling the Apache binary are we? I think this isn't
correct, the language could be more clear. 

## Using `check_apache`

This is just an `apachectl` wrapper. I honestly wasn't even aware of this until
more recently. DavidBi tested some of the flags for this, and it doesn't
necessarily work as intended, or how you think it should. Why not teach
`apachectl` for the pipeline instead?

We should be teaching the core CLI utilities before we teach the wrappers we've
created which (hopefully) enhance those tools.

