---
title: Cpanel Section
date: 2021-10-12 09:28
tags:
---

* [Source](https://360.articulate.com/review/content/fcb7fff4-d67c-425a-8071-704974423c9a/review)

## Daily Process Log

I would argue that familiarity with the GUI-based Daily Process Log as a
troubleshooting and diagnostics tool is more appropriate in T1E training. By the
time an agent is entering the APS pipeline then they should be getting
introduced to CLI-based and cPanel agnostic tools like, `top`, `htop`, `sar`,
`ps`, `uptime`, `free`, etc in order to diagnose and troubleshoot resource
issues.

## CageFS

It's rare that CageFS issues are encountered, but they do happen. Since this is
specific to our Shared hosting environment running on CloudLinux, I really feel
that this is more appropriate as part of the official APS training and not
necessarily in the scope of a pipeline. This is something that an APS agent
would be likely to encounter as part of an escalation.

The analogous pipeline topic would be file-systems, finding files, understanding
the Linux file-system structure, understanding things like files, inodes,
directories, symlinks, hard-links, linux ACL, etc. Virtualized file-systems like
CageFS, and things like _bind-mounts_ I would argue are an advanced linux
file-system topic. This is more appropriate in the official APS training after
the agent has a certain level of proficiency in linux file-system fundamentals.

## Regenerating Dovecot index files

Fixing dovecot index issues like this is a common escalation as an APS agent.
But this is very specific to Dovecot and cPanel. This is really more appropriate
in the official APS training I feel like. 

The APS pipeline might have a unit on using `grep` and `awk` to search and parse
`/var/log/maillog` and `/var/log/exim_mainlog` in order to diagnose and
troubleshoot common issues, this might be a good place to
introduce the topic of _regex_ too.

## Service Manager

This is probably more appropriate as T1E training. Anything cPanel GUI based is
probably something a competent T1E should understand. 

We should be introducing init systems like systemd and the `systemctl` utility
to manage services as part of the APS pipeline.
