---
title: 2021-09-19
date: 2021-09-14 05:46
---

What you eat is more important than how much you eat.
https://nutrition.org/scientists-claim-that-overeating-is-not-the-primary-cause-of-obesity/

This supports the ketogenic or slow-carb diets

I wish there was a way to log food and track calories similar to how ledger and
hledger can be used to track finances using _plain text accounting_
methodologies. Food logging bears a lot of similarities with plain text
accounting.

It looks like someone even uses ledger cli for this purpose.
https://github.com/rcaputo/calories-ledger
Using plain text account tools as a food log and diet tracker makes sense if you
think about fat as an _asset_ and losing fat as a combination of BMI, calories
burned through activity, and food intake.

Also worth looking at **The Hackers Diet**
https://www.fourmilab.ch/hackdiet/

## Hackers Diet Notes

Stress contributes to over-eating. Managing stress better needs to be part of
the strategy.

Managers manage problems, engineers fix them. (P. 29)

> Inside every problem there lurks a solution. (P. 29)

Can most solutions to tech support calls be automated much like the telephone
industry in the 1900's? (P. 31)

First fix problem of knowing _when_ and _how much_ to eat. (P. 32)

Exercise to live longer and feel better but not to lose weight. Eat less
calories than you burn to lose weight. (P. 33)

Calories in calories out. (P. 42)

About 3500 calories in a pound of fat. (P. 43)

Controlling your weight leads to benefits nothing else can grant. Longer life
and better health to enjoy it more.

Most fluctuation in weight on the scale is due to water intake or outtake. (P.
55)


